hello and welcome to ours
Ideas for teaching with lego
mindstorms education ev3 i'm martin
Engels from the lego education team
Germany and I would like to meet in
to incorporate a topic that is in the
robotics will be encountered again and again
at vending machines where we have something
buy or service or factory robots
All these robots must be during the
Execution of program information
save and return to this later
if you're in computer science
structured data stores and
Organized one also speaks of
Data structures and one of
basic data structures is that
ray or drops and get it with this
we can get acquainted with one
Exercise unit from the robot educator
our lego mindstorms education ev3
use software
we do not find this exercise unit in
the basics but the more complex
and your programs at the very end and
look at the preview already that we
work here with a robot
the information has to be saved
later a certain sequence of
to perform movements
which opens this exercise unit here
once in the digital workbook and us
look at the little video for the
the target on the robot will be here
shown in succession different colors
and he obviously has to remember this
because after four colors he should now
according to the colors a consequence of
to do some movement when I get that
correctly noticed has the robot
get shown green here and first
went to the front
then he was shown yellow then he has
turned right then became him
again shown in green is so again
driven to the front and to the conclusion
was still shown him since he has blue
finally turned to the left
if we are in the digital workbook now
go further we see that we also for
this exercise unit again the standard
Chassis of all robot educator
can use tutorials
In this case I already have the
touch sensors the color sensor
grown and also the small color choice
So we can prepare directly
go further
to the interactive animations of us
our program again parallel to
video can run
and here we see that the program off
consist of two parts
the first part of the program is busy
apparently the color codes
to scan and the lower part of the
program is now responsible for the
sequence of movements
this program we can now in
Create the following yourself if we
but now our equivalent
lessons would prepare us
that of course takes some time
and besides, maybe we just want to
briefly in the example solution for
to look into this project and for it
we can easily do that if we can
Software in the mode for teachers
have installed here on top of that
click icon for teacher mode
and immediately get the finished one here
example program displayed as
this program works but now
we have seen that after each
Press the button on the touch sensors
the robot remembers an information
But how can the robot do that?
Ever do how can he get information
to save
we can imagine ourselves in principle
that the robot is something like that
a small suitcase used in the
Computer science is also called one
variable and when the robot itself
So remember something here, for example
then the first color green in the case
He saves this information sets
she in the suitcase and if he later
Look into the suitcase again
he reads the variable then he finds
This information is there again
but happens now if the robot
not just a color but just
to remember a second now if
we work with such a suitcase
who only remember one single value
can
then the following would happen if the
robot would like to save yellow here
Green simply fly out and the
robot would only have noticed yellow
would have forgotten green
of course that is not allowed to happen
So we have to tell the robot that
he not only one in this suitcase
single value should save but
therefore, several values ​​are just a structure
of data in this case so an array
or a field you can imagine
like a table
The robot should now always first
look into the suitcase what already
is included and the information he
remember this is easy on the
attach existing ones and the
merged information again
put in the suitcase and in the next case
of course, here again attach to and
Finally, it's still blue so he turns
afterwards the full color here in the
noticed suitcase and goes the same way
our program also before the button
waited on offices senso waits the
Robot showed him one of the colors
turns green yellow or blue
all three colors accepted
and put them here in the variable
The whole thing he has exactly four times
then all four-color short and saved
after a small beep he
Immediately on the way power enters
again a loop the four times
is going through and in this loop
he now looks into the head
In the first run of the loop looked
this is the first element in our
second the second element and so on
and depending on the color he is in
this ray finds he now leads here
this branch out and if he is here
then he turns blue
left if the green one finds then
he drives straight ahead and when he turns yellow
he finds himself turning to the right and
Of course I would like to do that now
with a different sequence of colors
try out
For that I leave the robot in this
First, for example, forward again
But then go first with blue
Turn left then again forward
drive and finally with yellow after
Turn right
I have
mother already connected via bluetooth
so that the program is wireless directly
download free here about the start
and can perform
So I show the robot the four-color
in short we start with the green
color area then the robot
turn to the left with you too
each with a sound then he should
driving forward with green again and
concluding with yellow again after
turn right and our robot is seated
in motion drives straight ahead
turning left turns straight ahead
right and on it we can now in
naturally build and could follow
For example, expand the program
that we provide with more color code for
example red for backward more
add actions and so always us
more complex vending machines and
Applications are approaching
In this case, especially with computer science
and keep busy with
data structures in this case the rey
but of course with the read and
Write variables we have
control structures such as grinding and
Branches used and from the
field of science and
Technology us with the control of
vehicles and the use of short
Thank you very much for seeing
see you next time